docs/fine-tuned/yolonas.md, before:

YOLO-NAS is a computer vision model architecture developed by Deci AI.

## Supported Model Types

You can deploy the following YOLO-NAS model types with Inference:

- Object Detection
- Keypoint Detection

## Supported Inputs

Click a link below to see instructions on how to run a YOLO-NAS model on different inputs:

- [Image](../quickstart/run_model_on_image.md)
- [Video, Webcam, or RTSP Stream](../quickstart/run_model_on_rtsp_webcam.md)

## Configure Your Deployment

Starting from scratch? Use our Deployment Wizard to get a code snippet tailored to your device and use case.

- [Configure a YOLO-NAS Object Detection Model](https://roboflow.github.io/deploy-setup-widget/results.html#Fine-Tuned/Object%20Detection)
- [Configure a YOLO-NAS Classification Model](https://roboflow.github.io/deploy-setup-widget/results.html#Fine-Tuned/Classification)
- [Configure a YOLO-NAS Segmentation Model](https://roboflow.github.io/deploy-setup-widget/results.html#Fine-Tuned/Image%20Segmentation)

## License

See our [Licensing Guide](https://roboflow.com/licensing) for more information about how your use of YOLO-NAS is licensed when using Inference to deploy your model.

Commit message:

First iteration of `inference-models` docs (#1922)
* WIP - first steps towards docs

* WIP - first steps towards docs

* Add changes to docs regarding front page

* Add changes to README

* Add changes to README

* Add changes to README

* Add changes to kick-off getting started section

* Add docs about core concepts and cache management

* Add docs about installation, hw compatibility and docker

* Add docs about OD models

* Add docs about instance segmentation models

* Add docs for classification models

* Add OCR models docs

* Add keypoints models docs

* Add interactive segmentation models docs

* Add docs about VLMs

* Add embeddings models docs

* Add semantic segmentation model docs

* Add docs about open vocab detection models

* Add gaze detection docs

* Add docs about TRT compilation

* Clarify model index

* Modiy docs index and readme to inform why running custom models with library is beneficial

* Add changes to separate private from public interface at the level of library

* Add changes to core prinicples docs following on separation of imports

* Add changes to RFDETR model pages

* Add how to local models page

* Add extensions to how-to

* Finalise how-to guides

* Finalise how-to guides

* Add contributor guides and sync uv

* Document testing

* Add docstrings

* Add styling and make docs more compact

* Add basic content of API reference

* Add missing files

* Wrap adding API reference

* Add baseline error docs

* Add baseline documentation of errors and changelog

* AAdd docs for Package negotiation errors

* Add docs for model retrieval errors

* Add mor info about model retrieval errors

* Add model retrieval errors page

* Add docs about rutime and Environment

* Add docs for input and validation errors

* Conclude error pages

* Modify readme

* Fix tests

docs/fine-tuned/yolonas.md, after:

YOLO-NAS is a computer vision model architecture developed by Deci AI.

## Supported Model Types

You can deploy the following YOLO-NAS model types with Inference:

- Object Detection
- Keypoint Detection

## Supported Inputs

Click a link below to see instructions on how to run a YOLO-NAS model on different inputs:

- [Image](../quickstart/run_model_on_image.md)
- [Video, Webcam, or RTSP Stream](../quickstart/run_model_on_rtsp_webcam.md)

## Configure Your Deployment

Starting from scratch? Use our Deployment Wizard to get a code snippet tailored to your device and use case.

- [Configure a YOLO-NAS Object Detection Model](https://roboflow.github.io/deploy-setup-widget/results.html#Fine-Tuned/Object%20Detection)
- [Configure a YOLO-NAS Classification Model](https://roboflow.github.io/deploy-setup-widget/results.html#Fine-Tuned/Classification)
- [Configure a YOLO-NAS Segmentation Model](https://roboflow.github.io/deploy-setup-widget/results.html#Fine-Tuned/Image%20Segmentation)

## License

YOLO-NAS code is released under the **Apache 2.0** license, but the Deci-provided pre-trained weights are under a special license.

- **Training with Roboflow Train**: Commercial usage is allowed because Roboflow does not use the Deci weights.
- **Self-training outside Roboflow**: If you train your own YOLO-NAS model outside the Roboflow platform, ensuring adherence to the [Deci YOLO-NAS license](https://docs.deci.ai/super-gradients/latest/LICENSE.YOLONAS.html) is your responsibility.

See our [Licensing Guide](https://roboflow.com/licensing) for more information about how your use of YOLO-NAS is licensed when using Inference to deploy your model.
