inference_models/docs/index.md, before:

---
hide:
  - navigation
---

# Inference Models

Welcome to the **inference-models** documentation - the next generation of computer vision inference engine from Roboflow.

## 🚀 What is inference-models?

`inference-models` is the library to make predictions from computer vision models provided by Roboflow — designed to
be fast, reliable, and user-friendly. It offers:

- **Multi-Backend Support**: Run models with PyTorch, ONNX, TensorRT, or Hugging Face backends
- **Automatic Model Loading**: Smart model resolution and backend selection
- **Minimal Dependencies**: Composable extras system for installing only what you need
- **Behavior-Based Interfaces**: Models with similar behavior share consistent APIs; custom models can define their own

!!! success "Full Roboflow Platform Support"
    **Run any model trained on [Roboflow](https://roboflow.com)** - your custom models work seamlessly alongside pretrained weights. For supported model architectures, Roboflow provides pretrained weights you can use without training your own model.

## 🛣️ Roadmap to Stable Release

We're actively working toward stabilizing `inference-models` and integrating it into the main `inference` package. The plan is to:

1. **Stabilize the API** - Finalize the core interfaces and ensure backward compatibility
2. **Integrate with `inference`** - Make `inference-models` available as a selectable backend in the `inference` package
3. **Production deployment** - Enable users to choose between the classic inference backend and the new `inference-models` backend
4. **Gradual migration** - Provide a smooth transition path for existing users

We're sharing this preview to gather valuable community feedback that will help us shape the final release. Your input is crucial in making this the best inference experience possible!

??? note "Current Status"
    The `inference-models` package is approaching stability but is still in active development.

    * The core API is stabilizing, but minor changes may still occur
    * We're working toward backward compatibility guarantees
    * Production use is possible but we recommend thorough testing
    * For mission-critical systems, continue using the stable `inference` package until the official integration is complete

## ⚡ Quick Start

### Installation

!!! tip "We recommend using `uv`"
    `uv` is a fast Python package installer and resolver. Install it with:

    ```bash
    curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
    ```

    Learn more in the [uv documentation](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/).

=== "uv (recommended)"

    **CPU installation:**
    ```bash
    uv pip install inference-models
    ```

    **GPU installation with ONNX and TensorRT support:**
    ```bash
    uv pip install "inference-models[torch-cu128,onnx-cu12,trt10]" tensorrt
    ```

=== "pip"

    **CPU installation:**
    ```bash
    pip install inference-models
    ```

    **GPU installation with ONNX and TensorRT support:**
    ```bash
    pip install "inference-models[torch-cu128,onnx-cu12,trt10]" tensorrt
    ```

!!! warning "TensorRT Version Compatibility"
    The `trt10` extra only works with TensorRT 10.x. We recommend installing the TensorRT version compatible with your target environment by specifying the exact version: `tensorrt==x.y.z`. For example, `tensorrt==10.12.0.36` for CUDA 12.x environments.

!!! info "Composable Dependencies"
    The `inference-models` package uses a composable extras system - install only the backends and models you need.
    See [Installation Guide](getting-started/installation.md) for all available backends and their use cases.
    Learn more about this philosophy in [Principles & Architecture](getting-started/principles.md).

### Usage

Load and run a model:

```python
import cv2
import supervision as sv
from inference_models import AutoModel

# Load pretrained model from Roboflow
model = AutoModel.from_pretrained("rfdetr-base")

# Run inference (works with numpy arrays or torch.Tensor)
image = cv2.imread("<path-to-your-image>")
predictions = model(image)

# Use with supervision
annotator = sv.BoxAnnotator()
annotated = annotator.annotate(image, predictions[0].to_supervision())
```

### Using Your Roboflow Models

Load and run models trained on the [Roboflow platform](https://roboflow.com):

```python
import cv2
from inference_models import AutoModel

# Load your custom model from Roboflow
model = AutoModel.from_pretrained(
    "<your-project>/<version>",
    api_key="<your-api-key>"
)

# Run inference
image = cv2.imread("<path-to-your-image>")
predictions = model(image)

# Print predictions
print(predictions)
```

## 📚 Model selection optimized for your environment

When model is available in multiple backends, the same code works for all of them - `inference-models` automatically 
select best option based on your environment and installed dependencies. That strategy **maximizes performance** and 
**reduces your effort**.

**Available Backends:** PyTorch • ONNX • TensorRT • Hugging Face • MediaPipe

**Example: RFDetr Object Detection**

=== "Auto-Selection"

    !!! info "Installation"
        ```bash
        # CPU
        uv pip install "inference-models[onnx-cpu]"
        # GPU
        uv pip install "inference-models[torch-cu128,onnx-cu12,trt10]" tensorrt
        ```

    ```python
    import cv2
    import supervision as sv
    from inference_models import AutoModel

    # Automatically selects best available backend
    model = AutoModel.from_pretrained("rfdetr-base")

    image = cv2.imread("<path-to-your-image>")
    predictions = model(image)

    # Visualize with supervision
    annotator = sv.BoxAnnotator()
    annotated = annotator.annotate(image, predictions[0].to_supervision())
    ```

=== "PyTorch"

    !!! info "Installation"
        ```bash
        # CPU
        uv pip install inference-models
        # GPU
        uv pip install "inference-models[torch-cu128]"
        ```

    ```python hl_lines="6"
    import cv2
    import supervision as sv
    from inference_models import AutoModel

    # Force PyTorch backend
    model = AutoModel.from_pretrained("rfdetr-base", backend="torch")

    image = cv2.imread("<path-to-your-image>")
    predictions = model(image)

    # Visualize with supervision
    annotator = sv.BoxAnnotator()
    annotated = annotator.annotate(image, predictions[0].to_supervision())
    ```

=== "ONNX"

    !!! info "Installation"
        ```bash
        # CPU
        uv pip install "inference-models[onnx-cpu]"
        # GPU
        uv pip install "inference-models[onnx-cu12]"
        ```

    ```python hl_lines="6"
    import cv2
    import supervision as sv
    from inference_models import AutoModel

    # Force ONNX backend
    model = AutoModel.from_pretrained("rfdetr-base", backend="onnx")

    image = cv2.imread("<path-to-your-image>")
    predictions = model(image)

    # Visualize with supervision
    annotator = sv.BoxAnnotator()
    annotated = annotator.annotate(image, predictions[0].to_supervision())
    ```

=== "TensorRT"

    !!! info "Installation (Requires NVIDIA GPU)"
        ```bash
        uv pip install "inference-models[trt10]" tensorrt
        ```

    ```python hl_lines="6"
    import cv2
    import supervision as sv
    from inference_models import AutoModel

    # Force TensorRT backend
    model = AutoModel.from_pretrained("rfdetr-base", backend="trt")

    image = cv2.imread("<path-to-your-image>")
    predictions = model(image)

    # Visualize with supervision
    annotator = sv.BoxAnnotator()
    annotated = annotator.annotate(image, predictions[0].to_supervision())
    ```

!!! warning "Backend Prediction Differences"
    Predictions may vary slightly between backends due to different numerical implementations. We aim for consistency, but minor differences are expected. Always validate performance for your specific use case.

## 🧠 Supported Model Architectures

- **RFDetr**
- **SAM models family**
- **Vision-Language Models** (Florence, PaliGemma, Qwen, SmolVLM, Moondream)
- **OCR** (DocTR, EasyOCR, TrOCR)
- **YOLO**
- and many more

For detailed model documentation, see [Supported Models](models/index.md).

## 🔧 Run your local models

Load your own model implementations from a local directory without contributing to the main library:

```python
from inference_models import AutoModel

model = AutoModel.from_pretrained(
    "/path/to/my_custom_model",
    allow_local_code_packages=True
)
```

Your custom model directory structure:

```
my_custom_model/
├── model_config.json    # Model metadata
├── model.py            # Your model implementation
└── weights.pt          # Model weights (optional)
```

See [Load Models from Local Packages](how-to/local-packages.md) for complete details on creating custom model packages.

## 📄 License

The `inference-models` package is licensed under Apache 2.0. Individual models may have different licenses - see the [Supported Models](models/index.md) for details.

---

Ready to get started? Head to the [Quick Overview](getting-started/overview.md) →

Commit message:

Modiy docs index and readme to inform why running custom models with library is beneficial

inference_models/docs/index.md, after:

---
hide:
  - navigation
---

# Inference Models

Welcome to the **inference-models** documentation - the next generation of computer vision inference engine from Roboflow.

## 🚀 What is inference-models?

`inference-models` is the library to make predictions from computer vision models provided by Roboflow — designed to
be fast, reliable, and user-friendly. It offers:

- **Multi-Backend Support**: Run models with PyTorch, ONNX, TensorRT, or Hugging Face backends
- **Automatic Model Loading**: Smart model resolution and backend selection
- **Minimal Dependencies**: Composable extras system for installing only what you need
- **Behavior-Based Interfaces**: Models with similar behavior share consistent APIs; custom models can define their own

!!! success "Full Roboflow Platform Support"
    **Run any model trained on [Roboflow](https://roboflow.com)** - your custom models work seamlessly alongside pretrained weights. For supported model architectures, Roboflow provides pretrained weights you can use without training your own model.

## 🛣️ Roadmap to Stable Release

We're actively working toward stabilizing `inference-models` and integrating it into the main `inference` package. The plan is to:

1. **Stabilize the API** - Finalize the core interfaces and ensure backward compatibility
2. **Integrate with `inference`** - Make `inference-models` available as a selectable backend in the `inference` package
3. **Production deployment** - Enable users to choose between the classic inference backend and the new `inference-models` backend
4. **Gradual migration** - Provide a smooth transition path for existing users

We're sharing this preview to gather valuable community feedback that will help us shape the final release. Your input is crucial in making this the best inference experience possible!

??? note "Current Status"
    The `inference-models` package is approaching stability but is still in active development.

    * The core API is stabilizing, but minor changes may still occur
    * We're working toward backward compatibility guarantees
    * Production use is possible but we recommend thorough testing
    * For mission-critical systems, continue using the stable `inference` package until the official integration is complete

## ⚡ Quick Start

### Installation

!!! tip "We recommend using `uv`"
    `uv` is a fast Python package installer and resolver. Install it with:

    ```bash
    curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
    ```

    Learn more in the [uv documentation](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/).

=== "uv (recommended)"

    **CPU installation:**
    ```bash
    uv pip install inference-models
    ```

    **GPU installation with ONNX and TensorRT support:**
    ```bash
    uv pip install "inference-models[torch-cu128,onnx-cu12,trt10]" tensorrt
    ```

=== "pip"

    **CPU installation:**
    ```bash
    pip install inference-models
    ```

    **GPU installation with ONNX and TensorRT support:**
    ```bash
    pip install "inference-models[torch-cu128,onnx-cu12,trt10]" tensorrt
    ```

!!! warning "TensorRT Version Compatibility"
    The `trt10` extra only works with TensorRT 10.x. We recommend installing the TensorRT version compatible with your target environment by specifying the exact version: `tensorrt==x.y.z`. For example, `tensorrt==10.12.0.36` for CUDA 12.x environments.

!!! info "Composable Dependencies"
    The `inference-models` package uses a composable extras system - install only the backends and models you need.
    See [Installation Guide](getting-started/installation.md) for all available backends and their use cases.
    Learn more about this philosophy in [Principles & Architecture](getting-started/principles.md).

### Usage

Load and run a model:

```python
import cv2
import supervision as sv
from inference_models import AutoModel

# Load pretrained model from Roboflow
model = AutoModel.from_pretrained("rfdetr-base")

# Run inference (works with numpy arrays or torch.Tensor)
image = cv2.imread("<path-to-your-image>")
predictions = model(image)

# Use with supervision
annotator = sv.BoxAnnotator()
annotated = annotator.annotate(image, predictions[0].to_supervision())
```

### Using Your Roboflow Models

Load and run models trained on the [Roboflow platform](https://roboflow.com):

```python
import cv2
from inference_models import AutoModel

# Load your custom model from Roboflow
model = AutoModel.from_pretrained(
    "<your-project>/<version>",
    api_key="<your-api-key>"
)

# Run inference
image = cv2.imread("<path-to-your-image>")
predictions = model(image)

# Print predictions
print(predictions)
```

## 📚 Model selection optimized for your environment

When model is available in multiple backends, the same code works for all of them - `inference-models` automatically 
select best option based on your environment and installed dependencies. That strategy **maximizes performance** and 
**reduces your effort**.

**Available Backends:** PyTorch • ONNX • TensorRT • Hugging Face • MediaPipe

**Example: RFDetr Object Detection**

=== "Auto-Selection"

    !!! info "Installation"
        ```bash
        # CPU
        uv pip install "inference-models[onnx-cpu]"
        # GPU
        uv pip install "inference-models[torch-cu128,onnx-cu12,trt10]" tensorrt
        ```

    ```python
    import cv2
    import supervision as sv
    from inference_models import AutoModel

    # Automatically selects best available backend
    model = AutoModel.from_pretrained("rfdetr-base")

    image = cv2.imread("<path-to-your-image>")
    predictions = model(image)

    # Visualize with supervision
    annotator = sv.BoxAnnotator()
    annotated = annotator.annotate(image, predictions[0].to_supervision())
    ```

=== "PyTorch"

    !!! info "Installation"
        ```bash
        # CPU
        uv pip install inference-models
        # GPU
        uv pip install "inference-models[torch-cu128]"
        ```

    ```python hl_lines="6"
    import cv2
    import supervision as sv
    from inference_models import AutoModel

    # Force PyTorch backend
    model = AutoModel.from_pretrained("rfdetr-base", backend="torch")

    image = cv2.imread("<path-to-your-image>")
    predictions = model(image)

    # Visualize with supervision
    annotator = sv.BoxAnnotator()
    annotated = annotator.annotate(image, predictions[0].to_supervision())
    ```

=== "ONNX"

    !!! info "Installation"
        ```bash
        # CPU
        uv pip install "inference-models[onnx-cpu]"
        # GPU
        uv pip install "inference-models[onnx-cu12]"
        ```

    ```python hl_lines="6"
    import cv2
    import supervision as sv
    from inference_models import AutoModel

    # Force ONNX backend
    model = AutoModel.from_pretrained("rfdetr-base", backend="onnx")

    image = cv2.imread("<path-to-your-image>")
    predictions = model(image)

    # Visualize with supervision
    annotator = sv.BoxAnnotator()
    annotated = annotator.annotate(image, predictions[0].to_supervision())
    ```

=== "TensorRT"

    !!! info "Installation (Requires NVIDIA GPU)"
        ```bash
        uv pip install "inference-models[trt10]" tensorrt
        ```

    ```python hl_lines="6"
    import cv2
    import supervision as sv
    from inference_models import AutoModel

    # Force TensorRT backend
    model = AutoModel.from_pretrained("rfdetr-base", backend="trt")

    image = cv2.imread("<path-to-your-image>")
    predictions = model(image)

    # Visualize with supervision
    annotator = sv.BoxAnnotator()
    annotated = annotator.annotate(image, predictions[0].to_supervision())
    ```

!!! warning "Backend Prediction Differences"
    Predictions may vary slightly between backends due to different numerical implementations. We aim for consistency, but minor differences are expected. Always validate performance for your specific use case.

## 🧠 Supported Model Architectures

- **RFDetr**
- **SAM models family**
- **Vision-Language Models** (Florence, PaliGemma, Qwen, SmolVLM, Moondream)
- **OCR** (DocTR, EasyOCR, TrOCR)
- **YOLO**
- and many more

For detailed model documentation, see [Supported Models](models/index.md).

## 🔧 Run your local models

Load your own model implementations from a local directory - models with architectures **not** in the main `inference-models` package. This is especially valuable for **production deployment** of custom models.

**Why use `inference-models` for custom models?**

- **Multi-backend support** - Automatically run your models with TensorRT, ONNX, or PyTorch backends without writing backend-specific code
- **Production-ready tooling** - Leverage tested components for model loading, preprocessing, and prediction
- **Frictionless training-to-production** - Take models from training to production applications with minimal effort
- **Integration with Roboflow ecosystem** - Use your custom models in [Workflows](https://inference.roboflow.com/workflows/about/) for complex pipelines or with [InferencePipeline](https://inference.roboflow.com/using_inference/inference_pipeline) for video processing
- **Keep models private** - Run proprietary architectures without contributing to the main package

```python
from inference_models import AutoModel

model = AutoModel.from_pretrained(
    "/path/to/my_custom_model",
    allow_local_code_packages=True
)
```

Your custom model directory structure:

```
my_custom_model/
├── model_config.json    # Model metadata
├── model.py            # Your model implementation
└── weights.pt          # Model weights (optional)
```

See [Load Models from Local Packages](how-to/local-packages.md) for complete details on creating custom model packages.

## 📄 License

The `inference-models` package is licensed under Apache 2.0. Individual models may have different licenses - see the [Supported Models](models/index.md) for details.

---

Ready to get started? Head to the [Quick Overview](getting-started/overview.md) →
