docs/foundation/sam3_3d.md, before:

# SAM3-3D Model

3D object generation model that converts 2D images with masks into 3D assets (meshes and Gaussian splats).

This model is currenlty in Beta state! The model is only available if "SAM3_3D_OBJECTS_ENABLED" flag is on. The model can currently be ran using inference package, and also be used in Roboflow Worklows as a part of local inference server.

## DISCLAIMER: In order to run this model you will need a 32GB+ VRAM GPU machine. 

## Installation

```bash
pip install --no-cache-dir --no-build-isolation -r requirements/requirements.sam3_3d.txt
```
We recommend using python 3.10

## Docker

```
docker build -t roboflow/roboflow-inference-server-gpu:dev -f docker/dockerfiles/Dockerfile.onnx.gpu.3d .
```

and then

```
docker run --gpus all -p 9001:9001 -v ./inference:/app/inference roboflow/roboflow-inference-server-gpu:dev
```

## Input

- **image**: RGB image (PIL Image, numpy array, or inference request format)
- **mask_input**: Mask(s) defining object regions. Supports multiple formats:

| Format | Single | Multiple |
|--------|--------|----------|
| Binary mask | `np.ndarray` (H, W) | `np.ndarray` (N, H, W) or `List[np.ndarray]` |
| Polygon (COCO flat) | `[x1, y1, x2, y2, ...]` | `[[x1, y1, ...], [x1, y1, ...]]` |
| Polygon (points) | `[[x1, y1], [x2, y2], ...]` | N/A |
| RLE | `{"counts": "...", "size": [H, W]}` | `[{"counts": ...}, ...]` |
| sv.Detections | From SAM2 or other segmentation models | Extracts all masks |

## Output

- **mesh_glb**: Combined 3D scene mesh (GLB binary)
- **gaussian_ply**: Combined Gaussian splatting (PLY binary)
- **objects**: List of individual objects:
  - `mesh_glb`: Object mesh (GLB binary)
  - `gaussian_ply`: Object Gaussian splat (PLY binary)
  - `metadata`: `{rotation, translation, scale}`
- **time**: Inference time in seconds

## Keep in mind to set 'os.environ["SAM3_3D_OBJECTS_ENABLED"] = "true"' otherwise the model won't be available. And if available, set "SPARSE_ATTN_BACKEND" and "ATTN_BACKEND" to "flash_attn" to speed the pipeline up.

## Example

```python
import os
os.environ["SAM3_3D_OBJECTS_ENABLED"] = "true"
os.environ["SPARSE_ATTN_BACKEND"] = "flash_attn"
os.environ["ATTN_BACKEND"] = "flash_attn"

from inference.models.sam3_3d.segment_anything_3d import SegmentAnything3_3D_Objects
from inference.core.entities.requests.sam3_3d import Sam3_3D_Objects_InferenceRequest
from inference.core.entities.responses.sam3_3d import Sam3_3D_Objects_Response
from inference import get_model
import json

def load_coco_masks(annotations_path, image_id):
    with open(annotations_path, 'r') as f:
        coco_data = json.load(f)

    annotations = [
        ann for ann in coco_data['annotations']
        if ann['image_id'] == image_id
    ]

    segmentations = [ann['segmentation'] for ann in annotations]

    return segmentations

image_path = "demo-data/train/IMG_6860_jpeg.rf.9fceef9265cef07f0cd4b339527a6756.jpg"
annotations_path = "demo-data/train/_annotations.coco.json"
image_id = 0

mask_polygon = load_coco_masks(annotations_path, image_id)

image = {
    "type": "file",
    "value": image_path
}

model = get_model("sam3-3d-objects", api_key="your api key here")

request = Sam3_3D_Objects_InferenceRequest(
    image=image,
    mask_input=mask_polygon,
)

print("Running SAM3_3D inference...")
response: Sam3_3D_Objects_Response = model.infer_from_request(request)

print(f"\nSAM3_3D inference completed in {response.time:.2f} seconds!")
print("=" * 80)

# 1. Scene Mesh (GLB)
if response.mesh_glb is not None:
    print(f"\n[Output 1/3] Scene Mesh (GLB format)")
    with open("out_mesh.glb", "wb") as f:
        f.write(response.mesh_glb)
    print(f"  Saved mesh to out_mesh.glb ({len(response.mesh_glb):,} bytes)")
else:
    print(f"\n[Output 1/3] No mesh output")

# 2. Combined Gaussian splatting
if response.gaussian_ply is not None:
    print(f"\n[Output 2/3] Combined Gaussian splatting (PLY format)")
    with open("out_gaussian.ply", "wb") as f:
        f.write(response.gaussian_ply)
    print(f"  Saved gaussian to out_gaussian.ply ({len(response.gaussian_ply):,} bytes)")
else:
    print(f"\n[Output 2/3] No combined gaussian output")

# 3. Individual objects
print(f"\n[Output 3/3] Individual objects ({len(response.objects)} objects)")
objects_metadata = []
for i, obj in enumerate(response.objects):
    print(f"\n  Object {i}:")

    # Save individual mesh
    if obj.mesh_glb is not None:
        filename = f"out_object_{i}_mesh.glb"
        with open(filename, "wb") as f:
            f.write(obj.mesh_glb)
        print(f"    Saved mesh to {filename} ({len(obj.mesh_glb):,} bytes)")

    # Save individual gaussian
    if obj.gaussian_ply is not None:
        filename = f"out_object_{i}_gaussian.ply"
        with open(filename, "wb") as f:
            f.write(obj.gaussian_ply)
        print(f"    Saved gaussian to {filename} ({len(obj.gaussian_ply):,} bytes)")

    # Collect metadata
    obj_metadata = {
        "object_index": i,
        "rotation": obj.metadata.rotation,
        "translation": obj.metadata.translation,
        "scale": obj.metadata.scale,
    }
    objects_metadata.append(obj_metadata)
    print(f"    Metadata: rotation={obj.metadata.rotation is not None}, translation={obj.metadata.translation is not None}, scale={obj.metadata.scale is not None}")

# Save all metadata to file
with open("out_metadata.json", "w") as f:
    json.dump({"objects": objects_metadata}, f, indent=2)
print(f"\n  Saved all metadata to out_metadata.json")

print("\n" + "=" * 80)
print("All outputs saved successfully!")
print("=" * 80)
```

Commit message:

Add remote exec capability for foundation models missing it (#1968)
* add remote exec for foundation models missing it

* make style

* fix missing name in unit tests

* fix depth estimation endpoint to return propper base64

* allow passing model id explicitly in /infer/llm endpoint

* fix image returned by depth estimation block on remote exec

docs/foundation/sam3_3d.md, after:

# SAM3-3D Model

3D object generation model that converts 2D images with masks into 3D assets (meshes and Gaussian splats).

This model is currently in Beta state! The model is only available if "SAM3_3D_OBJECTS_ENABLED" flag is on. The model can currently be ran using inference package, and also be used in Roboflow Workflows as a part of local inference server.

## Execution Modes

SAM3-3D supports both local and remote execution modes when used in workflows:

- **Local execution**: The model runs directly on your inference server (32GB+ VRAM GPU strongly recommended)
- **Remote execution**: The model can be invoked via HTTP API on a remote inference server using the `sam3_3d_infer()` client method or the `/sam3_3d/infer` endpoint

## DISCLAIMER: In order to run this model you will need a 32GB+ VRAM GPU machine. 

## Installation

```bash
pip install --no-cache-dir --no-build-isolation -r requirements/requirements.sam3_3d.txt
```
We recommend using python 3.10

## Docker

```
docker build -t roboflow/roboflow-inference-server-gpu:dev -f docker/dockerfiles/Dockerfile.onnx.gpu.3d .
```

and then

```
docker run --gpus all -p 9001:9001 -v ./inference:/app/inference roboflow/roboflow-inference-server-gpu:dev
```

## Input

- **image**: RGB image (PIL Image, numpy array, or inference request format)
- **mask_input**: Mask(s) defining object regions. Supports multiple formats:

| Format | Single | Multiple |
|--------|--------|----------|
| Binary mask | `np.ndarray` (H, W) | `np.ndarray` (N, H, W) or `List[np.ndarray]` |
| Polygon (COCO flat) | `[x1, y1, x2, y2, ...]` | `[[x1, y1, ...], [x1, y1, ...]]` |
| Polygon (points) | `[[x1, y1], [x2, y2], ...]` | N/A |
| RLE | `{"counts": "...", "size": [H, W]}` | `[{"counts": ...}, ...]` |
| sv.Detections | From SAM2 or other segmentation models | Extracts all masks |

## Output

- **mesh_glb**: Combined 3D scene mesh (GLB binary)
- **gaussian_ply**: Combined Gaussian splatting (PLY binary)
- **objects**: List of individual objects:
  - `mesh_glb`: Object mesh (GLB binary)
  - `gaussian_ply`: Object Gaussian splat (PLY binary)
  - `metadata`: `{rotation, translation, scale}`
- **time**: Inference time in seconds

## Keep in mind to set 'os.environ["SAM3_3D_OBJECTS_ENABLED"] = "true"' otherwise the model won't be available. And if available, set "SPARSE_ATTN_BACKEND" and "ATTN_BACKEND" to "flash_attn" to speed the pipeline up.

## Example

```python
import os
os.environ["SAM3_3D_OBJECTS_ENABLED"] = "true"
os.environ["SPARSE_ATTN_BACKEND"] = "flash_attn"
os.environ["ATTN_BACKEND"] = "flash_attn"

from inference.models.sam3_3d.segment_anything_3d import SegmentAnything3_3D_Objects
from inference.core.entities.requests.sam3_3d import Sam3_3D_Objects_InferenceRequest
from inference.core.entities.responses.sam3_3d import Sam3_3D_Objects_Response
from inference import get_model
import json

def load_coco_masks(annotations_path, image_id):
    with open(annotations_path, 'r') as f:
        coco_data = json.load(f)

    annotations = [
        ann for ann in coco_data['annotations']
        if ann['image_id'] == image_id
    ]

    segmentations = [ann['segmentation'] for ann in annotations]

    return segmentations

image_path = "demo-data/train/IMG_6860_jpeg.rf.9fceef9265cef07f0cd4b339527a6756.jpg"
annotations_path = "demo-data/train/_annotations.coco.json"
image_id = 0

mask_polygon = load_coco_masks(annotations_path, image_id)

image = {
    "type": "file",
    "value": image_path
}

model = get_model("sam3-3d-objects", api_key="your api key here")

request = Sam3_3D_Objects_InferenceRequest(
    image=image,
    mask_input=mask_polygon,
)

print("Running SAM3_3D inference...")
response: Sam3_3D_Objects_Response = model.infer_from_request(request)

print(f"\nSAM3_3D inference completed in {response.time:.2f} seconds!")
print("=" * 80)

# 1. Scene Mesh (GLB)
if response.mesh_glb is not None:
    print(f"\n[Output 1/3] Scene Mesh (GLB format)")
    with open("out_mesh.glb", "wb") as f:
        f.write(response.mesh_glb)
    print(f"  Saved mesh to out_mesh.glb ({len(response.mesh_glb):,} bytes)")
else:
    print(f"\n[Output 1/3] No mesh output")

# 2. Combined Gaussian splatting
if response.gaussian_ply is not None:
    print(f"\n[Output 2/3] Combined Gaussian splatting (PLY format)")
    with open("out_gaussian.ply", "wb") as f:
        f.write(response.gaussian_ply)
    print(f"  Saved gaussian to out_gaussian.ply ({len(response.gaussian_ply):,} bytes)")
else:
    print(f"\n[Output 2/3] No combined gaussian output")

# 3. Individual objects
print(f"\n[Output 3/3] Individual objects ({len(response.objects)} objects)")
objects_metadata = []
for i, obj in enumerate(response.objects):
    print(f"\n  Object {i}:")

    # Save individual mesh
    if obj.mesh_glb is not None:
        filename = f"out_object_{i}_mesh.glb"
        with open(filename, "wb") as f:
            f.write(obj.mesh_glb)
        print(f"    Saved mesh to {filename} ({len(obj.mesh_glb):,} bytes)")

    # Save individual gaussian
    if obj.gaussian_ply is not None:
        filename = f"out_object_{i}_gaussian.ply"
        with open(filename, "wb") as f:
            f.write(obj.gaussian_ply)
        print(f"    Saved gaussian to {filename} ({len(obj.gaussian_ply):,} bytes)")

    # Collect metadata
    obj_metadata = {
        "object_index": i,
        "rotation": obj.metadata.rotation,
        "translation": obj.metadata.translation,
        "scale": obj.metadata.scale,
    }
    objects_metadata.append(obj_metadata)
    print(f"    Metadata: rotation={obj.metadata.rotation is not None}, translation={obj.metadata.translation is not None}, scale={obj.metadata.scale is not None}")

# Save all metadata to file
with open("out_metadata.json", "w") as f:
    json.dump({"objects": objects_metadata}, f, indent=2)
print(f"\n  Saved all metadata to out_metadata.json")

print("\n" + "=" * 80)
print("All outputs saved successfully!")
print("=" * 80)
```
